Frank Saunders scaled from zero to 3
million ARR in just 12 months. We'll be
digging into the exact cold outbound
strategy, process, and tactics he used
to grow his SAS business super quick.
We'll be talking about AI agents and if
they're all hype or if they're actually
super useful to build out your sales
process and drive meetings, demos, and
much more. And we'll be sharing what the
early days were like for Frank's SAS
company's growth. right from starting
out posting on LinkedIn to building up
the brand to all of the outbound
strategies that he followed so you can
do exactly the same. Plus, we'll be
diving into a lot of the mistakes that
folks make when it comes to their
outbound strategy and some of the secret
ingredients you need alongside outbound
to make sure your general go to market
is a success. Let's dive into it.
>> Frank, welcome to the show. Give us a
quick introduction to yourself and your
company. Yeah. So, Frank Saunders, I'm
running a company called The Forge or
Salesforge. Essentially, there's many
forges, many products. Been doing this
for about three years. We specialize in
in outbound, all things outbound,
specifically called email and LinkedIn
and doing that programmatically. We're
typically fit for folks that have at
least 3,000 accounts or 3,000 companies
that they want to target. And that's our
sweet spot. That's where we would
typically say we're the number one
multi- channelannel platform for that.
And yeah, I've been doing this for 3
years, uh, building different products.
It's part of a concept called the
software compound model. you're
ultimately building multiple pieces of
software selling at the same using the
same customer and you're becoming a bit
like Apple essentially by the end of it.
So we compare ourselves to Apple a lot.
Uh prior to working in sales for I've
been in uh sales for over a decade. In
my last gig I had a sales team of about
50. So done all the stuff that you want
to do on the front line and managing
teams speaking to the board optimizing
the CAC you name it you know all that
stuff. And then I I really had enough
back then you know thinking that hey you
know the only way to scale pipeline and
and actually generate more revenue was
through more bodies. And I thought that
was the wrong way to look at things. And
then I thought to myself, you know what?
What would be a different way of doing
things? How could I scale pipeline or,
you know, improve results by not having
that many people? And today, my sales
team of five together with me, we
produce more output than my old sales
team of 50 3 years ago. Just to give you
an idea how things have massively
changed. And actually, a lot of things
have, you know, came into effect since
like, you know, chat, GPT, LMS, JL, you
name it. All that good stuff that came
into play. And you can achieve more
output today with significantly fewer
humans. And our job is really to make,
you know, companies lean and mean. And
yeah, in the first year, we scaled from
zero to three million bucks in ARR. So,
um, much faster than any outreach
software in the planet. And, yeah, doing
pretty well. And we just continue to
scale. We're very capital efficient,
profitable as a business. We did raise
half a million bucks. Uh, but we're
looking to raise more. And, uh, yeah,
off to the races.
>> Love it, man. Love it, man. So, we're
going to be digging into that. We're
going to be digging into how you've
grown so fast. not to 3 million AR in in
just 12 months, which is solid. But
we're also going to be digging into No,
no worries. We're also going to be
digging into AI agents,
>> talking about the actual process you
followed at your business. So, anyone
watching, listening in can replicate it
for their B2B or SAS and start getting
some meaningful conversations, demos,
sales calls flowing with their outbound
motion. So, first and foremost, Frank,
AI agents, is it a load of hype or are
they actually bringing in meaningful
sales calls to to B2B SAS companies in
2026 and beyond?
>> So, it's very hard to answer this one
because if I'm very honest, in the last
few months, at least five AI SDR
companies have died. So, on one hand,
you could say uh you know, they're full
of hype and they don't work and that's
because, you know, it's very hard to
orchestrate really good AI agents. First
of all, it's very hard and you need a
lot of capital. So it will take
typically about one or two years I would
say to build a like a really good AI
agent that would actually work for a
segment of the market. So yes you need
the capital you need good invest
whatever you know to really make it. The
other problem is that the market became
so crowded so fast in the last few years
with all the other companies like 11x
artisan you name it all of them you know
building the agents and the thing is it
doesn't work for everybody. So for whom
does it work and for whom it doesn't
work? So it typically doesn't work if
you're selling in an environment where
you you know six figure deals is very
typical. Seven figure deals is very
typical. Sales cycles are sort of longer
than 6 months. I would say it's not
really great. If you're looking to
target fortune 500 companies is not
great. Essentially anything that's sort
of enterprise enterprise sales you want
to stay away from AI agents in full and
everything that's more sort of let's
call transactional or high velocity
sales then definitely that's more
applicable. And then naturally AI agents
are only good really on for two things
on the outbound front is one is
programmatic essentially computational
sort of approach towards emails and
LinkedIn messages on on so that's
LinkedIn plus called email so that it
works there but you can't for example
call call today and some of the teams
especially in enterprise majority of the
demos they book is through cold calling
and it's illegal to call call in Europe
and the US so these are the main markets
so if you can't call call there then you
know you need to figure out how to get
an optin there's a way to grow hack as
well we haven't done that yet but I know
some really smart people out there that
drive a lot of meta ads into the funnel,
they get an optin and then they
immediately apply the agent to call the
prospect because they have the consent
to call. So there there are ways to do
that. We definitely run AI agents for
example ourselves on the inbound front.
So yeah, it doesn't work for a lot of
the segments and the only way to figure
out for whom it works and for whom it
doesn't which is why a lot of AI agents
have died or they've seen a ton of churn
is to on board a lot of the customers
and essentially to learn when it works
when it doesn't work. So you need to get
these learnings and figure out the
different sort of niches where you know
where stuff works and so yeah we have
also churned through a ton of customers
and just trying to figure out whether it
works or not and now we have a
qualification criteria where we jump on
the call and we really try to figure out
whether you're a fit or not and we tell
the customer whether you're like in the
green zone, the yellow zone or the red
zone. So yes, we do turn off a lot of
customers because we know they're going
to churn and we don't want the naturally
turn mag to look horrible. You know,
we're not here to get a customer just
for 3 months which is our billing cycle.
We want them to stick around for like a
long period of time. So, we're trying to
predict will they be actually successful
with us or not. And if they're in the
yellow zone, so as in there are some
risks, but like we want to be
transparent with the customer and we
always tell them, hey, listen, we don't
believe that you have a big enough of a
TAM and blah blah blah to actually make
this work, then as long as they're aware
of the risks and they're happy to go
ahead, then we'll go ahead. But yeah, we
definitely are not anymore in the
mindset of onboarding anybody. And so do
the other AI agent companies as well.
But I can tell you still we looked at
some you know other softwares or other
AI agents how they work and they're
still not correctly orchestrated. Even
the big boys you know that generate tens
and tens of millions of dollars in ARR
in agentic sales like you look at those
softwares and you speak to their
customers etc. and you look at the way
that you know the agents are you know
playing around and doing things you're
like damn this is not what you would do
in sales typically. So you feel like
there's yeah a bit of a mismatch and it
feels like the engineers are building
this stuff and product people rather
than sales people. See this is where
there's a disconnect there. So yeah,
>> that's what it feels like from me from
the outside looking in. That's why I was
keen to get you and have this
conversation because I have limited
experience using them certainly from an
outbound perspective as well. So I was
keen to kind of bring someone who's on
the forefront of it cuz for me I've just
like yourself weirdly whilst I am a a
founder and B2B marketer I have a strong
sales background. So, I've always come
from a sales background and for someone
with limited knowledge on on how AI
agents work for a goto market kind of
outbound sales perspective, I always
think that they make sense for me for
like automating tedious tasks. If you
can do some kind of set LinkedIn
outreach, they can help with cold email,
those kind of tasks, but it doesn't feel
like they'd work on anything more
advanced than that. when a sales p
person actually needs to speak to a
prospect run a great discovery call
uncovering pain aligning their jobs to
be done finding their motivators seeing
if they're a good fit or poor fit based
on if they qualify etc don't know what
your thoughts are there
>> yeah I mean it's exactly true um I mean
you you just need to know when to apply
humans and the agent so I'm a big
believer in you know you have a
salesunnel whatever there's a funnel
right but the the funnel can't be fully
owned by agents and it would be stupid
to say it has to be kind of done fully
by humans because you know humans go to
bed and whatever. So you need to know at
which uh parts of the funnel you are
applying a agents and I'm going to give
you an example of that. So right now if
you watching this or whatever on
LinkedIn whatever if you go to our site
and so currently we are what's called in
our sales hours because we're catering
predominantly for the US. You can
literally call somebody on the site so
you can literally click dial button call
that goes into Slack and you'll speak to
a real human and that part of the funnel
makes sense because there's a lot of
ambiguity at the top of the funnel and
people just have a lot of questions.
You're not really sure what questions
they're going to come with and there's
so many different questions that people
ask us on the site and we generate over
200 calls on the monthly basis. So, a
lot a lot of calls because we have a ton
of traffic. But then the other parts of
the funnel, so for example, if you sign
up uh for a trial or you booked a demo
and you didn't end up buying from us, so
essentially there's no activity in the
CRM, you didn't purchase anything or
maybe there's no activity in the app,
we're going to call you using AI voice
agent. So, we essentially I've blown my
voice and you'll get a call saying,
"Hey, Sam, this is this is Frank calling
from the forge. I just saw you signed up
a week ago. How was the experience like?
So, one thing that we're doing is we're
farming insight trying to figure out why
you're not buying stuff or what's your
experience like? So, we have a lot of
context that we can pass over to the
product team. And then we're asking the
person whether they want to book on an
onboarding call, demo call or explore
any of the any of the forges. That's
like one very good use case. The other
one is like imagine you have churn
account, right? So, everybody has
churned accounts and they high velocity
sales. You typically have hundreds of
churn accounts per month and instead of
you know running sort of email, you
know, automation sort of, you know,
funnels whatever trying to bring them
back again, you can apply a voice agent,
right? because you have the consent to
to call them and you can say hey I saw
that you know you were a customer like a
year ago or two years ago I was
wondering you know whether cold email is
still relevant to you blah blah blah and
so that's an example where there's
context the context is there was a churn
account back then they subscribed to
sales forges or one of the other forges
and you're trying to bring them back
right so because maybe now is a better
time to kind of re-engage etc so that's
another example the other one cool one
is like imagine you booked a demo and
the user didn't attend the demo right so
and instead of you know asking the rep
and you know to always chase yes we're
going to do that But still if they
didn't come back into a demo again a
fantastic use case for a voice AI agent.
So you just need to know when to use
humans for you know one part of the
funnel versus the other one. And by
blending in the right way the agents and
humans you're maximizing actually truly
the output and you're minimizing the
cost still. So I'll give you an example
how to do that in outbound actually
right where we generate currently like
overall we generate over 500 demos a
month. So we would call us the top 1%
for the volume of activity we generate
at the midfunnel but uh yeah 30% comes
from outbound about so that means yeah
100 plus demos comes from outbound every
month and then the rest comes from
inbound actually right so we do have a
lot of activities in inbound as well in
salesforge which is our software where
you essentially do the execution only
for two channels like call emails in
that drives about 100 demos on a monthly
basis but in apart from plowing in
humans and humans setting up the
campaigns we also have the agents
running for one part of the business
right So again, that's another example
of where okay, for this segment of the
market, we decide that we going to fully
own and be in control of the copy,
targeting, infrastructure, blah blah
blah, you name it. And for the other
side of the uh for that part of the
market where maybe I don't have a really
a good angle when it comes to the copy
or like whatever the problems are, the
agents are much better to figure that
part out as well. If you're a bigger
company, you know, typically we say,
hey, okay, all the key accounts, right?
So the accounts that could pay us a ton
of money. Same for you, Sam, right? So
you have some cyclical probably types of
customers that could pay you more money.
and then the other guy small fish maybe
it's not worth your time. That's another
example where you would use agents,
right? So just know also when for which
you know kind of segments of the market
what to use humans or AI agents. So
yeah.
>> Okay. That's interesting. So you're
basically using them to kind of automate
some of the follower get back in touch
with churned accounts folks that no show
demos. And is that because they've opted
in previously that you're then allowed
to use an AI agent to to call those
folks up?
>> Yeah. Voice agents are you allowed to do
that? Yeah. On the voice front you can
only call natural essentially what we
call inbound stuff or essentially when
you have consent you can call them. If
you don't have consent, try and figure
out how to get consent. So like there's
ways to kind of hack growth hack it. So
for example, I don't know, you give them
like a checklist, whatever, some sort of
resource, and then they tick the box
that there's a consent. Then let's say
you only have the email address, then
you go and enrich that email address
with the mobile number as an example,
and then you call them still, right? So
you don't ask for the number, but you
figure it out. So there are ways
definitely to engineer this. And yeah,
today we do a lot of calling. We do
about, you know, a couple thousand
dollars a week using humans naturally on
the on the on the call calling front and
then a few thousand dollars on the
inbound with AI voice agents as an
example. So yeah,
>> got it. I think that gives some nice
context and especially for folks that
maybe aren't using these as actively
like myself and I'm sure many people
tuning in. I think that tees it up
nicely. So I'm keen to dig into kind of
your own growth at Forge and the
multiple SAS companies you're running
and almost do a timeline of those first
12 months like the go to market that you
ran from almost the zero to hitting that
3 mill within the year. So it' be
interesting to know kind of what were
the first steps? What did the early days
look like of building out that motion?
>> Yeah. So it was all about founder led
sales ultimately being sort of a bit
everywhere whether that's a bit on
LinkedIn bit of YouTube etc. And then
you're warming up the audience. So you
can you typically call this concept of
inbound led outbound essentially right.
So in order to have really strong
results in outbound right if you're
reaching out to people direct and asking
them for their time and getting them to
demo etc. it's much easier for you to be
warming up the audience. And actually
back in the days I was poor as in I
could not spend money on ads and stuff
like that. So what do you do? You just
write really good posts on LinkedIn or
you write you even go to Reddit and you
go to other places. You warming up the
audience, right? People kind of get
educated and then once you warm up the
audience for a while typically like a
few months, right? So people get to know
you, you connect to a bunch of ICPs. So
even the the outbound that I would do,
let's say on LinkedIn in the early days,
so I'll just connect to a lot of ICPS
and I I would not even message them like
nothing. But you connect to so many ICPs
and you connect to about 100 people a
week. So if you do that consistently and
not just across your one profile but all
the profiles that you own that means you
know I have other two co-founders in the
business so I had access three profiles
they have 30 LinkedIn profiles that I
have access to is my sort of you know
army but back in the business
>> is that all of your sales team
>> yeah sales team uh even support people
engineers content you name it does not
matter what you do at the company just
plug it all in in Salesforge and off you
go connect to people whatever you want
to do whether you want to ask them to
come jump on a webinar or here's a you
know quicker um sheet or right now what
we're running we have this little
community called bacon forge we're
inviting people into community so
there's multiple these sort of let's
call micro conversion that you can
optimize for you don't have to always
always push for a demo right so you know
I always say patience is virtue but like
learn how to always keep warming up the
audience both from an standpoint of I'm
doing social selling right I'm warming
up and showing myself but also reaching
out to people and trying to be helpful
where yeah again something that is of
use so for example we run a webinar uh a
while back how to write cold emails you
when people just are really bad at
writing cold emails, right? And then I
tried to aggregate as much info as I
could and then show it in a webinar on
how to do that, invite a lot of people.
Hundreds of people turn up and our
current attendance rate on average or
registration sort of uh get that we get
is about 500 on a monthly basis. So, and
actually we do a lot of outbound to
invite people even into a webinar. So,
that's an example of a micro conversion.
So, back in the days we were doing a lot
of sort of let's call little automations
and back in the days we did not use we
did not have LinkedIn ourselves as an
automation. So we're using competitor
tools to automate even LinkedIn and do a
lot of outbound but we would drive them
towards something uh you know like a
webinar some piece of content etc. But
to do that again successfully you also
need to make sure as I said you need to
make sure you're visible on LinkedIn and
that literally means posting every day
Monday to Friday at least like once a
day and even weekends. Fun fact with the
weekends by the way is the fact that
because people don't post much on the
weekends you don't you're not competing
as much on the weekends actually u
because other sort of let's call
creators or other people because they
don't post that means you're more likely
to get more reach on during the weekend
I personally recommend to post on the
weekends there's less competition
>> is that personal experience you've seen
more impact from posting on LinkedIn on
the weekend
>> on average you see that like imagine the
post quality is let's say like the same
right it's just that during the weekends
you find that you suddenly getting like
10 20 30,000 impressions which is very
weird but that's because there's low
competition essentially because the
other people are not posting they're
chilling whatever they're doing but
people are still scrolling on LinkedIn
during the weekends see so I would say
don't stop during weekends people are
still scrolling LinkedIn and so if your
ICP is active just definitely do it
right so I used to do like aggressively
that the other thing that I used to do
aggressively in the first year is always
trying to be let's call visible also
offline so I'll go to some startup
events tech events you know you name it
building up more and more of the brand
so But again, when I hit them with an
email, LinkedIn message or I would call
call them whatever uh or even WhatsApp
them on outbound. We also do aggressive
WhatsApp outbound. Hundreds of messages
on WhatsApp every day. Back in the days
was maybe 10 20 like call outbound
WhatsApp messages. So that you know they
they they knew who I am, right? Because
oh yeah know Frank. Oh, I've seen Frank
on LinkedIn. Oh yeah, these funny funny
things that he does or funny things that
he says. Oh yeah, I've been following
him as a co-ounder journey. And that
works, right? People also want to start
a company one day. They're watching this
guy Frank, you know, building a company
from the early days.
>> I can resonate a lot with this, Frank.
This sounds very similar to our early
days at breaking B2B.
>> You just do things that don't scale in
the early days. Um,
>> like you say, you have the cash, so
you've got to get more creative, haven't
you, with how how you do things.
>> Yeah. And we scaled to the first million
bucks in AR with no employees at all.
Um, it was just two, you know, two
co-founders on the on the product
engineering front. So, they were
building the stuff and I was selling it.
Then you understand that at the one
million bucks in AR you have hundreds of
customers and they're they're coming on
intercom so the chat app right so they
just talking about asking questions
their bugs etc. So we hired you know
first person on support then engineering
you know so not even sales we only added
people into go to market at about 2
million plus in ARR only back then and
that was on content front funny enough
not not on the sales front or not on um
like you know anything else content yeah
head of content was the first person
that we hired into the team. So the the
the other reasoning is like why why we
do that did that is because you know
apart from being super visible on
LinkedIn and we hit people hard with
with with you know cold emails and
everything like these emails were not
really cold right so the because you
know we warm up the audience but like
the other piece that you need to do is
also be super visible also on the search
front and we were like a nobody so
there's a lot of competitors hundreds of
competitors out there and we're like
nobody so how could we be like on the
radar and we so we started to do
actually and we still do that today very
successfully we started to do reviews
about our competitor on LinkedIn in as
well on the on the blog and everything
and guess what we started to index and
then our uh ideal customers even try GPT
back then as well you would you do you
search for a review of a competitor and
then it will link to our site so we were
getting a lot of traffic and like oh
what what's this company ah salesforge
and then again so when we hit them oh
yeah I heard about sales forge I bump
into one of your articles so it makes
your life easier on the outbound right
so outbound can only be super successful
if you have the inbound piece sorted and
unfortunately doesn't matter whether you
do enterprise sales for, you know, as
you know, selling to a lot of SMBs like
I I I'm still doing today. You need to
be kind of everywhere, right? You need
to have these multiple, you know, people
need to be able to see you like on
Reddit and YouTube and and search, you
know, chat GBT, they see you and
everywhere. And suddenly they have this
feeling of like, oh, I have not even
signed up to sales, I have not even
started a trial. So, they want to start
a trial, but then when they get an
email, they'll be a I heard about you.
Right. So, it all kind of needs to, you
know, be done.
>> It's an ecosystem.
>> Yeah. It's an ecosystem. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exa Exactly. Right. As Frank
mentioned, once you're scaling past 1
million ARR, content, SEO, and AI search
was a big part of building out the
inbound engine to support the outbound.
And one of the tactics he talked about
was showing up for dream clients when
they have high sales intent for your
offering, either in AI searches or on
Google when they're looking at things
like competitor reviews, competitor
alternatives, competitor pricing, or
evaluating competitors against each
other. This is a prime time to show up
in Google search and AI search to
attract dream clients. This is where you
can dig deep into their pain points and
start shining a light on where your
product or solution stands out in the
marketplace. And if you know dream
clients often compare you to
alternatives, you can scoop up a lot of
those demos, sales calls, and signups
for folks that are frustrated with their
current vendor or evaluating their
options. This is just one of the many
strategies we can implement for your B2B
or SAS company over at Breaking B2B. And
often companies drive pipeline and
revenue as quick as 90 days when working
with us for SEO and AI search. So head
over to breakingb.com or hit the link in
the description below to grab a free
strategy call with me. Right back to the
video. Am I hearing this correctly? You
got to 1 millionaire RR basically from
just pure sweat equity, posting a ton on
LinkedIn, showing up, doing some
automated cold outreach, you and your
founders kind of leveraging basically
everything you could inerson events like
building the brand, pumping out content,
doing outreach, got to that, hired your
first person at 1 million R, which was
more support. And then was it just more
of the same to 2 million or did the
strategy shift slightly from 1 mil to 2
mill?
>> I would say no. Like at that point we
were like 1 million beyond. We started
to have what we call cash flow issues
like we were making so much money but
then also we had to we had some expenses
that were going out every single month
and that forced us to raise half a
million bucks in in VC funding like one
of the reasons.
>> Okay.
>> So we could have been profitable and
bootstrap but it was just not really
possible. There was like few reasons why
we had to kind of also raise as well.
the one option was like let's get a loan
for our business right so we don't need
VC funding why dilute and you know give
up equity to etc and we thought well
let's get a loan well guess what if you
go to any bank or any even fintech out
there they're not going to give you any
money like if you've been around for
less than 12 months so we've been around
like for a few months and 1 million AR
and so nobody wants to give you money
apart from VCs naturally so when the VCs
see that naturally you're growing crazy
like this of course they want to give
you money right so the only dilemma is
naturally back then is they said Frank
listen you're never going to make it
it's never going to be a big company you
have hundreds us competitors.
>> The VC said this,
>> yeah, of course. Yeah, because you know,
see, I'm a first-time founder, right?
So, it's like a red flag for a lot of
VCs. First- time founder. Red ocean
market. One of the worst categories in
the world. Something to do with email.
Like, it's really one of the worst like,
oh, another company building something
around email. This is so boring. Um,
never going to make it, you know. Um,
yeah, we we proved everybody wrong on at
that stage. And now there's a lot of
VCs, you know, knocking the door, etc.
>> Did they squeeze you much in terms of
percentage for the 500k?
>> No, they didn't. No, it's a it's like
the the best way to look at it is if
you're raising a round and you have
giving up less than 10% of equity,
you've done a good job. So, we did less
than 10%. So, you're giving up less than
10% of the company at every round. When
you do that, it's it's it's a good way
of raising money. Typically, what folks
do is they give up like 20% on average.
Um, and that's just too much dilution.
Um, you you're going to get peanuts at
the by the end of it. But I always say,
you know, if there's a path to get to
100 million as in, you know, there's a
humongous market, humongous problem
solving, some like sales is an example
of that. uh would say do raise money
because you know we have a lot of
competitors that that raise a ton more
money than we we did right and so they
were wellunded they're right now in San
Francisco they're pumping out everything
we didn't we just raised half a million
bucks fun fact we didn't spend a single
penny of it so by the end of it we
didn't w spending it just sits in the
bank account you know for the last 2
years gathering dust but um
>> but then was there other benefits to it
like the VC introductions like
networking that kind of stuff maybe they
made some
>> yeah I mean investors are not just good
for the money right so always say get
the right people on board like you know
you want to get investors that know what
they're good at. So as in you want to
get investors at a particular area that
you're not good at as in for example
there's one investor they specialize in
like all things legal for example and
another investor specializes in in
fundraising and then the third one so we
have like three three main parties and
then the third ones are former tech CEOs
so essentially they have a lot of
knowledge as to running companies and
and handling problems etc. So like it
definitely can bring something to the
table and I think as first- time founder
it's totally fine. Like I know there's a
lot of people talk about you know why
you need to be bootstrap and stuff like
that. At the end of it your job is just
to grow the company to uh to the moon
right so if the moon is 100 million I
think you need to raise uh personally uh
but if you're somebody like I don't want
to name anybody but essentially you're
you want you're happy with 10 million
and 20 million AR and you want to talk
about on LinkedIn non-stop and be
bootstrapped go for it. Happy days. I
have an aspiration to get to 100 mil so
you need to raise. So is is my take and
VCs bring a lot to the table that people
just don't think about and that will
bring more at a round and B round and C
round and so on and so forth. So but
yeah we we always got to do outbound
right as a business but I think um in
the early days outbound 0 to three is is
paramount because you know it's the
cheapest way to acquire customers you
know sending cold emails is very cheap.
You just need to know what you're doing.
You need to buy some infrastructure blah
blah blah.
>> Word of mouth cheaper.
>> Word of mouth is cheaper. Yes. I mean
building a good product right typically
like in the I would say yeah in the in
like a heated space like ours the best
product typically wins so that means if
you have like a really solid product yes
the word of mouth is strong here and in
other categories and that's because in
our category I think like sales people
founders they do talk to each other and
they do recommend the software people
talk in Slack and WhatsApp communities
whatever so that is that is definitely
strong but not everybody is in is in
communities and whatever and unless
they're going to get an email they're
never going to hear about us so we also
think about outbound also in a bit of a
different uh A and it comes from a very
influential person. So he said in the
space think about outbound or like
sending a cold email as a form of
advertising. So if you don't think about
email as email as a called email, you
send it and you're asking for something
or whatever. But if you look at a bit
more like advertising, trying to educate
the audience and you do that
consistently. Consistently meaning
you're knocking on doors of every single
potential customer once a quarter. That
is the better way to build pipeline than
asking for demo or whatever. Try to
educate customers and then when the time
is right they know they've been
receiving emails from you about you know
how do I call the emails or whatever you
know trying to educate trying to be
helpful try to be helpful first but not
in a way where you look at emails like
damn these guys trying to be helpful you
know try to be truly helpful right like
if you are making a session on how to
write cold emails just make it goddamn
amazing session you know something that
you would actually pay for hundreds of
pounds or whatever you know euros
dollars whatever like something you like
damn this is truly valuable and you want
to rewatch it you know whatever and
something that people typically
gatekeeper, right? But you're just
giving it out for free, putting it on
the web. And one of the things I highly
recommend that people should think about
which which massively improves the
results on cold email is have a super
strong way to do what's called brand
recall in the very early days. So
naturally spending, you know, money or
effort in in marketing, but how can you,
you know, if if a person has seen you on
LinkedIn, etc., how can you generate
brand recall? So when I think about you,
for example, the word that pops to mind
is breaking. I think uh is the first key
but essentially when people think about
me the first keyword that pops to mind
is bacon. So you know and how do you
>> they're breaking bacon?
>> Yes. So but how do you engrade like
keywords or something visual? So there's
much stronger visual recall and then you
know when I would actually reach out to
a person and in my signature it says
chief bacon officer there's a bit of a
recall there. I've seen that guy
somewhere you know. So that helps a lot
like personal branding and and push that
into a cold email. So like you have to
think about these little little things.
So yeah,
>> it's interesting how I thought this
conversation would be mainly about kind
of cold tactics and outreach tactics and
things like that, but we're actually
leaning more into gaining attention from
ICPS like brand building and being
remembered and outbound is a part of
that, inbound is a part of that. Social
is a part of that. showing up
consistently as someone who basically
knows their in in the industry and
positioning yourself as someone that's a
problem solver, maybe a bit like us,
slightly weird, slightly funny, slightly
entertaining, but also knows what
they're talking about in their space.
And so when the time comes, like you
said, you just think of that snippet of
their brand and then an outbound message
might flash up or you might see them on
Google or chat GBT or whatever form it
is and then eventually think, "Oh, we
actually need to review that." And
that's the
>> but the thing is that people don't think
about you know when you're hitting
somebody a call that you need to do all
that work prior. People just think about
oh let me just buy some domains email
accounts and get some LinkedIn profiles
and off I go. Sure you'll see some
results but how how about doubling the
conversion rate? How about doubling the
reply rate by investing up front and
having some sort of presence like even
like an having just a normal website
because that's what a typical person
does. So let's say I get a cold email.
Guess what I do? First thing I would do
is I go and going to go and check you
out on LinkedIn. Who is this guy? What
does he do? uh okay on LinkedIn you look
like a solid bloke then you're going to
go on his website you read a bit bit
more about it and then you're like all
right I'll go and give him a shot you
know and then you respond back on email
right so then you're saying oh my email
has worked but I think what a lot of
people on LinkedIn when they say oh cold
email you know great results blah blah
blah but that's because these companies
probably have a proper sites prop
LinkedIn presence and like these other
kind of what I call basics sorted out
that and then when things don't work for
a lot of companies so you know I have
also customers coming to me like Frank I
want to send like a million emails a
month and then they have no presence on
LinkedIn, not even a LinkedIn profile,
for example. You look at their website,
like you would never buy from them, you
know, and you're like, and you're trying
to be, you know, just very frank to the
customer saying, "Hey, listen. I know I
know I could, you know, make a lot of
money from you and you could sign up and
buy a lot of domains, but just think it
through like what would the normal
person do? They get an email from you.
They will go to your site. I'm not
trying to say the site sucks or
whatever, but like you can see it and
then now let's look at let's open my
website." You know, this not to say my
website is the best in the world or
something, but like we have a pretty
good site and and and then you're trying
to tell the customer, do you see the
difference there that they're just going
to be more likely to buy from a from a
proper site versus your site which looks
like from 1990s or something and there
are still people like that and they
don't get it. They just think that
solves everything.
>> We get exactly the same, man. It's about
getting those foundations in place
right. It's like we'll see the same
thing. People come to us for SEO but
their messaging won't be dialed in. they
don't know their exact ICP and who
they're trying to target and they don't
know the pain points they're solving
that like you say maybe their website is
like super thin and maybe they've only
got a few bucks to make this work and
I'll just say look get these systems in
place get this rock solid first because
just like with hold out reach if you
haven't got that base right it's
starting on basically a building of sand
that's going to collapse before it's
even begun
>> yeah so and you had going to have to
start kind of slow right back in the
days my my brand wasn't as big what I've
done today down the road infrastructure
wasn't that big or cold emailing wasn't
as high in terms of volume. But yeah,
back in the days maybe I had like
hundred mailboxes and three LinkedIn
profiles, me and my two founders, you
know, when we started off, you know, in
the early days and scaling, reaching out
to people. And then today, it's now 30
LinkedIn profiles and 500 mailboxes. And
that's just one workspace of of one guy
named Frank in in a company. There's
other people that that do their own
activity, but um yeah, it has 10x since
since back then, but you cannot also
sort of just do cold email or just do
LinkedIn or just do cold calling. You'll
find that you can definitely layer in
multiple layers. So like I mentioned to
you today we have like 20 plus layers
but back then you know there are a few
layers but like we would always send
cold emails we would always do LinkedIn
DMing and then we added let's say the
call calling bits and we use a parallel
dialer right now just to dial people at
scale etc. And I think everything works
if you figure out the because our time
is like massive you figure out who to
exactly reach out for calling it
specifically versus emailing versus
LinkedIn and and there has to be the
right copy and right targeting etc. So
today for example because we have let's
say hundreds of competitors what we
what's our quot let's call default
strategy that we apply is we just
extract a lot of let's say competitive
followers of LinkedIn and then we know
exactly the angle that we should be for
example going with and we did exactly
the same thing like you know back in the
early days why are we different and or
better cheaper faster than a particular
competitor so when we hit with our
messaging um it just resonates that's
why you know if we combine all the
channels together our response rates
always were double digits not like it's
very rare they're single digits If you
calculate, you know, the response rates
across all the channels and hitting the
same audience, we are getting a signal
because we're trying to always, you
know, do a good job because it also
doesn't look great on us. If we send a
shitty cold email or uh whatever you
land in spam, like it doesn't look great
for a company like ours, right? So, we
have to do a good job and we have to be
also visible everywhere. So, we
definitely get this sort of, you know,
messaging out there. Oh, I see Frank
everywhere. Like, but how do you
orchestrate this everywhere? How many
channels should I be and what should be
the frequency? And same with email. So
with email, we want to be hitting
everybody once a quarter. So if you have
not heard from me and you're watching
this, I'm a bit disappointed. If you're
my ICP as well, you're my ideal
customer. Do tell me if if if I did not
reach out to you and I'll
>> do reach out to me so I can code
outreach to you.
>> Yes.
>> Said no one ever.
That's funny. Okay, great. All right.
This this is interesting, man. And I
mean, this is going on a bit of a side
tangent, but you mentioned that you you
layered on a content person. you folks
started doing SEO, AI search. It sounds
like you did it in a smart way because
you were doing competitor reviews, like
competitor alternatives. I ramble on
about this on solo episodes all the time
that that's one of the quickest ways to
drive demos, signups, and and sales
calls. Literally work out what your
dream clients are evaluating. So, if
they're frustrated with existing
customers and you know why, then build
content around that. Or if they evaluate
competitors, two, three, four
competitors you're in that sector, start
building content around that. That's one
of the quickest ways to scoop up from
frustrated prospects of existing
competitors and scoop up those demos and
it sounded like you kind of leverage
that around your around 2 million or so
and and hired a content person to build
that out.
>> Yes, correct. Yeah. I mean the other
things that we layer in into cold emails
for example so it's not just for SEO etc
but like we would layer in into cold
emails as well is something that's
happening like right now whether there's
a problem in the industry with Microsoft
365 or there's a political event like
something would happen with Trump you
can layer in this let's call
geopolitical events into your cold email
copy like how can you be different in
the inbox right so when the email lands
how can you look at this like hm this
doesn't look automated but it still is
automated right but like well if you
mention things like you know something
geopolitical event so we run like one
campaign in back in January, so last
month on the subject line was don't get
caught like Maduro. Uh, and we're
talking about spam filters, you know,
and stuff like that. But see, we were
picking up a a geopolitical event that
people either agreed or disagreed with,
right? So, people have some sort of
feelings towards it, and we were hoping
for response, either positive or
negative response towards that cold
email copy that mentioned that
geopolitical event. So the more you're
able to do that either geopolitical
event or even weather to be honest like
you know let's say I'm reaching out to
people in New York do you know how cold
it is in New York right now and imagine
the copy would read like I bet you're a
bit you know frosty there you know uh in
Manhattan whatever you know like but
like leveraging these kind of things
people don't think about it and same
with like you know what's happening in
the space right now let's try and inject
that piece of content that's happening
this week into the brand new campaign
and let's just launch it so like just in
time copies of orchestration for a
campaign will make a huge difference
this is how I was thinking back and
around what's happening like okay GPT3
okay GPT4 launch let's put GPT4 in the
subject line and let's try and you know
say something blah blah blah I don't
know the more you do these things like
you adjust your copies your messaging
and how you do things based on what's
happening like right now the more it
will resonate the more people are likely
to respond the better results the better
efficiency everything instead of talking
about something that used to work like
two years ago or just generally
generically about cold email or etc so
yeah
>> sounds like you're constantly
experimenting
>> all the time yes all the time so I mean
I try not to recycle templates. So when
somebody talks to me about templates,
I'm actually advising them to stay away
from templates because the idea is not
to recycle the same way of you know
thought maybe it's you're just coming up
with new angles every time when you
launch a new campaign. So when I'm
launching a new campaign, I'm not
clicking let's use this template use
dynamic variables and what merge tags
to, you know, to send it off. No, I'm
thinking of a brand new angle on this
copy, right? And yeah, and I'm thinking
of, you know, who am I reaching out to?
Like, what do these people care about
right now? What's happening in the
world? What's happening in space right
now? What are they thinking about 2026?
Well, guess what a lot of people think
about right now? Cloth code. You know,
okay, cloth code. Cloth code plus cold
email plus LinkedIn outreach. Hm, what
could I do about it? What's trending?
How could I make this big? You know, and
you always think about these things, you
know, and guess what? That's that's what
works. And you don't know who's going to
what's going to be trending next month
and next month. You just don't know. But
whatever is going to be coming your way,
just take that trending thing and just
capitalize on the trend, right? That's
that's one of the easiest ways to grow
in the early days and then later on as
well. So yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's interesting. I
think that's one thing, isn't it? Being
able to especially when you're kind of
smaller, you've got massive competitors.
I think I've talked about this a lot on
the podcast on YouTube is almost your
unfair advantage is that you can move
super fast. So folks like us, while
we're still building, you're over 3
million, we're around 2 million plus AR
R. We don't have tons of red tape. We've
got a lot of flexibility with things
that we we can build programs, we can
build campaigns, we can come up with
ideas, we can execute pretty fast. We
don't have we run the business, right?
We we don't have layers of approval that
we need to go through. So, we can start
executing on on these weird ideas whilst
you might have giant competitors that
kind of maybe roll out one or two new
campaigns a year. You can come up with a
concept, pull it out, see what the
market thinks. If it works well, gets
positive responses, great, ramp it up.
If not, at least lesson learned. Let's
move on to the next idea. And I'm very
much the same with our marketing.
>> Yeah. I mean the problem is people have
a fatigue these days. So the only way to
tackle fatigue is just try to think of
what's called micro campaigns
essentially just in time copy execution
and just move on to the next one next
one next one like yeah it has to be
relatively fast because it's just like
Tik Tok sort of you know you're
consuming next next Tik Tok next Tik Tok
right so there's people just have short
attention spans and uh you want to be
serving the content that's the most sort
of relevant uh contextually like right
now you know that you could serve to the
user uh in the form of an email copy or
LinkedIn etc. So
>> yeah. Yeah. And as we wrap up, if you
could give one final tip to a SAS
marketer, founder or similar for their
cold outreach this year and beyond, what
would it be?
>> Typically, if you ask any smart founder,
uh, when it comes to acquisition, any
form of acquisition, if something works,
just try and figure out how to do the
10x of that. So you want to send, you
know, 100 emails, send,000 emails a day.
You want to write 10 blogs a month,
write 100. We do 200 plus articles a
month. Like, don't do what I call rookie
numbers. Sure, there's a thing called
conversion and things have to convert.
But if you just think 10x, can you scale
it? Like just try and figure out how to
do 10x and you'll be very thankful to me
year down the road that you did 10x
input that resulted maybe in 5x output
example, you know, but like yeah,
conversion rates will be lower when you
start scaling, but like you'll be super
super thankful. So like double down on
channels of things you want to do that
actually have the ability to scale
rather than working on these tiny
experiments, tiny things, you know, work
on big stuff. Big stuff that can either
scale or just something that could be
like really big and needle moving for
your business.
>> Got it. You heard it here first, folks.
So, copy what Frank says, then reach out
to Frank and say, "Frank, you need to
outreach me. You haven't outreached me
yet."
>> Nice one. So, I appreciate the
conversation. Thanks for joining in and
do share how anyone tuning in can learn
more about Forge and connect with
yourself.
>> Yeah, you can uh find me on LinkedIn. If
you just search for Bacon, the guy with
the bacon emoji, you can find me very
easily. Frank Saunders from Salesforge.
Yeah, you got any questions on anything
I I shared, let me know.
>> Cheers, man. Good to chat.
>> Cheers.
>> And there you have it. I hope you found
that master class with Frank super
useful. I know I really enjoyed that
conversation. And if you want to join
thousands of legends enjoying the
Breaking B2B newsletter where you'll
also instantly unlock my 90 days to
revenue SEO and AI search playbook and
video, head over to breakingb.com and
hit that newsletter tab. And with that,
I shall catch you on the next one.
Cheers.